docs/handlers.md, before:

# iDotMatrix Handler Plan

[`protocol.md`](protocol.md) is the normative wire-format and protocol
reference. This document is project-focused and defines which handlers we should
implement, in priority order, with API shape and behaviour expectations.

## Session Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [GATT profiles and endpoint resolution](protocol.md#gatt-profiles-and-endpoint-resolution)
- [Profile selection in practice](protocol.md#profile-selection-in-practice)
- [Connection semantics and MTU](protocol.md#connection-semantics-and-mtu)

Behaviour:

- Discover devices and connect.
- Verify required service/characteristic profile.
- Expose negotiated write size and connection metadata.
- Keep transport concerns here; command handlers should not perform discovery.
- Support profile selection for read/notify UUID strategy.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct SessionHandler<T: BleTransport> {
    transport: T,
}

pub struct SessionProfile {
    pub service_uuid: Uuid,
    pub write_uuid: Uuid,
    pub read_or_notify_uuid: Uuid,
    pub ota_service_uuid: Option<Uuid>,
    pub ota_write_uuid: Option<Uuid>,
    pub ota_notify_uuid: Option<Uuid>,
}

impl<T: BleTransport> SessionHandler<T> {
    pub async fn connect_first(
        &mut self,
        profile: SessionProfile,
    ) -> Result<DeviceSession, InteractionError>;
}
```

## Scan + Model Identification Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`  
Comment: Manufacturer payload parsing and model resolution are implemented and
wired into discovery. Ambiguous-shape devices now resolve via persisted
per-device LED-type overrides and connect-time LED-info query.

Protocol references:

- [Discovery and model identification](protocol.md#discovery-and-model-identification)
- [Scan acceptance algorithm](protocol.md#scan-acceptance-algorithm)
- [Manufacturer payload layout](protocol.md#manufacturer-payload-layout)
- [Shape and LED type resolution](protocol.md#shape-and-led-type-resolution)

Behaviour:

- Parse BLE advertisement records and validate vendor signature in AD type
  `0xFF`.
- Extract shape, reverse flag, CID, PID, group/device id, and lamp-count fields.
- Resolve model capability profile (panel size, LED type, ambiguity flags).
- Support per-device persisted choice for ambiguous shapes (`0x81/0x82/0x83`).
- Expose resolved capability data to transfer/control handlers.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct ScanIdentity {
    pub cid: u8,
    pub pid: u8,
    pub shape: i8,
    pub reverse: bool,
    pub group_id: u8,
    pub device_id: u8,
    pub lamp_count: u16,
    pub lamp_num: u16,
}

pub enum AmbiguousShape {
    Shape81,
    Shape82,
    Shape83,
}

pub struct ModelProfile {
    pub led_type: Option<u8>,
    pub panel_size: Option<(u16, u16)>,
    pub ambiguous_shape: Option<AmbiguousShape>,
}

pub struct ScanModelHandler;

impl ScanModelHandler {
    pub fn parse_identity(scan_data: &[u8]) -> Option<ScanIdentity>;
    pub fn resolve_model(identity: &ScanIdentity) -> ModelProfile;
}
```

## Device Profile Resolver Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`  
Comment: Typed routing resolution is now complete: scan identity + optional LED
info query are merged into canonical LED type/panel/text path/joint mode,
unresolved ambiguity is surfaced as an explicit error, and resolved routing is
surfaced in session metadata and consumed by text upload path validation.

Protocol references:

- [Shape and LED type resolution](protocol.md#shape-and-led-type-resolution)
- [Joint mode mapping for ambiguous layouts](protocol.md#joint-mode-mapping-for-ambiguous-layouts)
- [Canonical model-resolution algorithm](protocol.md#canonical-model-resolution-algorithm)
- [Command routing rules](protocol.md#command-routing-rules)

Behaviour:

- Resolve profile from parsed scan identity plus optional `Get LED type`
  response.
- Emit typed routing decisions for text path (`832/1616/3232/6464/1664`).
- Emit canonical joint mode for ambiguous shapes.
- Keep unknown/ambiguous profile states explicit (no silent fallback to guessed
  panel size).
- Feed this profile into all high-level command handlers.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct DeviceRoutingProfile {
    pub led_type: Option<u8>,
    pub panel_size: Option<(u16, u16)>,
    pub text_path: Option<TextPath>,
    pub joint_mode: Option<u8>,
}

pub enum TextPath {
    Path832,
    Path1616,
    Path3232,
    Path6464,
    Path1664,
}

pub struct DeviceProfileResolver;

impl DeviceProfileResolver {
    pub fn resolve(identity: &ScanIdentity, led_info: Option<LedInfoResponse>) -> DeviceRoutingProfile;
}
```

## Notification Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [Notify responses and flow control](protocol.md#notify-responses-and-flow-control)
- [Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)

Behaviour:

- Subscribe to active notify/read characteristic for the selected profile.
- Decode family-specific statuses (text/gif/image/diy/timer/schedule/OTA).
- Decode state-query responses:
  - LED info response (`0x01/0x80`, including switch/status byte, screen type,
    password flag, and MCU version).
  - Screen-light read response (`0x0F/0x80`).
- Emit typed events for `next_package`, `finish`, and family-specific errors.
- Preserve unknown payloads for diagnostics.

Rust API:

```rust
pub enum TransferFamily {
    Text,
    Gif,
    Image,
    Diy,
    Timer,
    Ota,
}

pub enum NotifyEvent {
    NextPackage(TransferFamily),
    Finished(TransferFamily),
    Error(TransferFamily, u8),
    ScheduleSetup(u8),
    ScheduleMasterSwitch(u8),
    LedInfo(LedInfoResponse),
    ScreenLightTimeout(u8),
    Unknown(Vec<u8>),
}

pub struct NotificationHandler;

impl NotificationHandler {
    pub fn decode(payload: &[u8]) -> Result<NotifyEvent, NotificationDecodeError>;
}
```

## Frame Codec Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [Frame families](protocol.md#frame-families)
- [Serialisation rules](protocol.md#serialisation-rules)

Behaviour:

- Encode/decode short control frames.
- Encode/decode 16-byte media headers.
- Encode/decode DIY 9-byte chunk prefixes.
- Encode/decode OTA 13-byte chunk headers.
- Keep field order explicit and per-family; do not assume one universal
  endianness helper behaviour.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct FrameCodec;

impl FrameCodec {
    pub fn encode_short(command_id: u8, command_ns: u8, payload: &[u8]) -> Result<Vec<u8>, FrameCodecError>;
    pub fn decode_short(frame: &[u8]) -> Result<ShortFrame<'_>, FrameCodecError>;
    pub fn encode_text_header(fields: TextHeaderFields) -> [u8; 16];
    pub fn encode_gif_header(fields: GifHeaderFields) -> [u8; 16];
    pub fn encode_diy_prefix(fields: DiyPrefixFields) -> [u8; 9];
    pub fn encode_ota_chunk_header(fields: OtaChunkHeaderFields) -> [u8; 13];
}
```

## Power Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Switchplate)

Behaviour:

- Implement screen on/off command pair where supported.
- Ensure idempotent caller-facing behaviour.
- CLI wired: `idm control power <off|on>`.

## Brightness Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Brightness)

Behaviour:

- Send brightness command with validated range input.
- Reject out-of-range values before encoding.
- CLI wired: `idm control brightness <0..100>`.

## Time Sync Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Sync time)

Behaviour:

- Convert timestamp to protocol fields (`yy mm dd dow HH MM SS`).
- Use Monday=1..Sunday=7 for day-of-week encoding.
- Send one atomic synchronisation frame.
- CLI wired: `idm control sync-time [--unix <timestamp>]`.

## Fullscreen Colour Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Full-screen colour)

Behaviour:

- Fill display with one RGB colour via fullscreen command.
- Use typed colour parameters.
- CLI wired: `idm control colour <r> <g> <b>`.

## Text Upload Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [Text upload](protocol.md#text-upload)
- [Command routing rules](protocol.md#command-routing-rules) (text-path rules)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns)
  (Text)

Behaviour:

- Build text payload from metadata + glyph stream according to selected
  resolution/profile.
- Compute CRC32 over logical text payload.
- Chunk at protocol size and then transport size.
- Use notification-driven pacing with fallback timeout policy.
- CLI wired: `idm control text <text>`.

## GIF Upload Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0` Comment: Implemented with 4K logical chunking, CRC32 framing,
notify ACK pacing, cache-hit short-circuit behaviour, and CLI wiring via
`idm image <image_file>`. Input is now type-validated as GIF bytes with parsed
logical dimensions before transfer begins.

Protocol references:

- [GIF upload](protocol.md#gif-upload)
- [Shared media tail byte pattern](protocol.md#shared-media-tail-byte-pattern-gif-image-text)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns) (GIF)

Behaviour:

- Chunk raw GIF bytes at `4096` protocol chunk size.
- Emit 16-byte GIF headers with proper flags/CRC/tail profile.
- Accept only syntactically valid GIF payloads via typed `GifAnimation`.
- When device panel dimensions are known, reject GIFs whose logical screen
  dimensions differ.
- Top-level `image` command detects GIF input and routes to this handler.
- Use notification-driven flow control.
- Drain stale notify events before upload to reduce cross-command ACK bleed.
- CLI wired via top-level `idm image <image_file>`.

## Image Upload Handler (Non-DIY)

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Implemented with 4K logical chunking, CRC32 framing, notify ACK pacing,
and type-safe RGB888 payload validation bound to active panel dimensions.

Protocol references:

- [Image upload (non-DIY)](protocol.md#image-upload-non-diy)
- [Display-intent payload semantics](protocol.md#display-intent-payload-semantics)
- [Shared media tail byte pattern](protocol.md#shared-media-tail-byte-pattern-gif-image-text)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns)
  (Image)

Behaviour:

- Support image family (`0x02`) 16-byte header upload flow.
- Accept RGB888 framebuffer payloads only (`width * height * 3`) via typed
  `Rgb888Frame` construction.
- Reject payloads whose frame dimensions do not match active panel geometry.
- Keep file/container decoding and resize/rotation outside this handler.
- Align tail/profile bytes to target firmware behaviour.
- Reuse chunker and flow-control primitives from GIF handler.
- CLI wired via top-level `idm image <image_file>`.

## DIY Upload Handler (Raw RGB)

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [DIY raw RGB upload](protocol.md#diy-raw-rgb-upload)
- [Display-intent payload semantics](protocol.md#display-intent-payload-semantics)
- [DIY raw-image frame](protocol.md#diy-raw-image-frame-9-byte-header)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns) (DIY)

Behaviour:

- Switch to DIY mode before transfer.
- Upload RGB888 framebuffer payload with 9-byte DIY per-chunk prefix.
- Reject payloads whose byte length does not match active panel geometry.
- Support mode reset/exit behaviour after completion.

## Clock Style Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Clock mode/style)

Behaviour:

- Encode clock style flags (`style`, `show_date`, `is_24h`) and colour.
- Keep style as typed enum.

## Countdown Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Countdown)

Behaviour:

- Support start/pause/reset style countdown commands.
- Validate minute/second ranges.

## Chronograph Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Chronograph)

Behaviour:

- Map semantic operations to protocol modes (`reset/start/pause/continue`).

## Scoreboard Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Scoreboard)

Behaviour:

- Encode two score words with explicit byte ordering policy.
- Clamp or reject out-of-range values by documented policy.

## Device Info Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Expanded scope on `2026-02-16`. LED-info response parsing is used both
from explicit query semantics and from the time-sync callback path; current
implementation assumptions around a single query flow are incomplete.

Protocol reference:
[Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)

Behaviour:

- Support LED-info read via protocol response shape
  `len >= 9, b[2]=0x01, b[3]=0x80` and parse:
  - MCU version major/minor
  - switch/status byte
  - screen type
  - password flag
- Optionally issue dedicated query frame (`04 00 01 80`) where supported.
- Surface capabilities needed by higher-level handlers.

## Experimental: `getLedType` Probe

Status: `EXPERIMENTAL`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Added on `2026-02-16`. A dedicated query frame `04 00 01 80` is defined
but call-sites are not explicit in normal flows. We should probe this safely and
capture per-device behaviour.

Protocol reference:
[Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)

Behaviour:

- Send raw query frame `04 00 01 80` after connection/notify setup.
- Wait for response matching `len >= 9`, `b[2] == 0x01`, `b[3] == 0x80`.
- Parse and log:
  - MCU version major/minor (`b[4]`, `b[5]`)
  - switch/status byte (`b[6]`)
  - screen type (`b[7]`)
  - password flag (`b[8]`)
- Apply timeout and no-response handling; do not block normal command flows.
- Record outcome by resolved profile/firmware so we can decide if this should be
  promoted into the core `Device Info Handler`.

## Screen Light Timeout Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Expanded scope on `2026-02-16`. Query/readback (`05 00 0F 80 FF` ->
`05 00 0F 80 <value>`) is confirmed; implementation must expose typed readback,
not set-only writes.

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Screen-light timeout set/read)

Behaviour:

- Implement set/read screen-light timeout commands.
- Parse readback response and expose typed duration.

## Readback Capability Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: New on `2026-02-16`. Only limited readback capability exists (LED info,
screen-light timeout, OTA descriptor string). No reverse
framebuffer/current-image download command path was found.

Protocol references:

- [Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)
- [Compatibility notes](protocol.md#compatibility-notes)

Behaviour:

- Provide one place that defines supported read operations and unsupported ones.
- Support:
  - LED info/state read.
  - Screen-light timeout read.
  - Optional descriptor-string read for firmware/OTA gating.
- Explicitly return `unsupported` for:
  - Download currently displayed image/framebuffer.
  - Pulling current material payload bytes from device.

## Password Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Set/Verify password)

Behaviour:

- Implement set password and verify password command families.
- Keep password representation typed and validated.

## Joint/Mic/Rhythm Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol references:

- [Joint mode mapping for ambiguous layouts](protocol.md#joint-mode-mapping-for-ambiguous-layouts)
- [Music/rhythm control](protocol.md#musicrhythm-control)

Behaviour:

- Implement joint mode, mic type, and rhythm control commands.
- Keep unknown sub-modes explicit as opaque values where semantics are unclear.

## Timer Transfer Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [Timer transfer protocols](protocol.md#timer-transfer-protocols)
- [Timer transfer frame](protocol.md#timer-transfer-frame-24-byte-header)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns)
  (Timer)

Behaviour:

- Encode timer transfer headers (24-byte family).
- Support image/text timer payload modes.
- Decode timer-specific ACK/save/fail notify statuses.

## Schedule Transfer Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [Schedule transfer protocols](protocol.md#schedule-transfer-protocols)
- [Schedule transfer frame](protocol.md#schedule-transfer-frame-23-byte-header)
- [Schedule control responses](protocol.md#schedule-control-responses)

Behaviour:

- Encode schedule transfer headers (23-byte family).
- Support gif/image/text schedule theme transfers.
- Sequence setup/master-switch and queued resource sends.
- Decode schedule setup/master-switch responses.

## OTA Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [OTA transfer protocol](protocol.md#ota-transfer-protocol)
- [OTA data frame](protocol.md#ota-data-frame)
- [OTA setup command](protocol.md#ota-setup-command)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns) (OTA)

Behaviour:

- Implement OTA step-1 command and validation.
- Encode OTA chunk headers and send chunked binary.
- Track OTA notify statuses and fail conditions.

## Display Orientation Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Rotate 180)

Behaviour:

- Manage rotate control as typed operation.
- Keep each control explicit; avoid ambiguous boolean APIs.

## Graffiti Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol references:

- [DIY raw RGB upload](protocol.md#diy-raw-rgb-upload)
- [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control) (Enter/exit DIY
  mode)

Behaviour:

- Support per-pixel DIY drawing command path.
- Validate coordinates against active panel dimensions.

## Cross-cutting requirements

- All transfer handlers SHOULD share a common chunking/pacing engine.
- Timeout policy MUST be configurable per transfer family.
- Handler APIs SHOULD return structured receipts with status family and final
  response payload.
- Unknown response payloads MUST be preserved for diagnostics.

Commit message:

refactor(notification): type notification statuses and session events
We currently push raw notification bytes through session APIs and ask
callers to decode them. That spreads protocol parsing across CLI and
handlers, duplicates behaviour, and makes higher-level code depend on
transport detail.

Schedule responses were also represented as raw status bytes, which
forces each consumer to reinterpret magic values instead of using the
protocol meaning directly.

This change introduces typed schedule status enums and moves
notification decoding into the session boundary. run_notifications and
run_listen now deliver Result<NotifyEvent, NotificationDecodeError> so
client code stays protocol-oriented. The CLI and upload handlers were
updated to consume typed events, snapshots/tests were refreshed, and
handler docs now reflect the typed notification contract.

docs/handlers.md, after:

# iDotMatrix Handler Plan

[`protocol.md`](protocol.md) is the normative wire-format and protocol
reference. This document is project-focused and defines which handlers we should
implement, in priority order, with API shape and behaviour expectations.

## Session Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [GATT profiles and endpoint resolution](protocol.md#gatt-profiles-and-endpoint-resolution)
- [Profile selection in practice](protocol.md#profile-selection-in-practice)
- [Connection semantics and MTU](protocol.md#connection-semantics-and-mtu)

Behaviour:

- Discover devices and connect.
- Verify required service/characteristic profile.
- Expose negotiated write size and connection metadata.
- Keep transport concerns here; command handlers should not perform discovery.
- Support profile selection for read/notify UUID strategy.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct SessionHandler<T: BleTransport> {
    transport: T,
}

pub struct SessionProfile {
    pub service_uuid: Uuid,
    pub write_uuid: Uuid,
    pub read_or_notify_uuid: Uuid,
    pub ota_service_uuid: Option<Uuid>,
    pub ota_write_uuid: Option<Uuid>,
    pub ota_notify_uuid: Option<Uuid>,
}

impl<T: BleTransport> SessionHandler<T> {
    pub async fn connect_first(
        &mut self,
        profile: SessionProfile,
    ) -> Result<DeviceSession, InteractionError>;
}
```

## Scan + Model Identification Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`  
Comment: Manufacturer payload parsing and model resolution are implemented and
wired into discovery. Ambiguous-shape devices now resolve via persisted
per-device LED-type overrides and connect-time LED-info query.

Protocol references:

- [Discovery and model identification](protocol.md#discovery-and-model-identification)
- [Scan acceptance algorithm](protocol.md#scan-acceptance-algorithm)
- [Manufacturer payload layout](protocol.md#manufacturer-payload-layout)
- [Shape and LED type resolution](protocol.md#shape-and-led-type-resolution)

Behaviour:

- Parse BLE advertisement records and validate vendor signature in AD type
  `0xFF`.
- Extract shape, reverse flag, CID, PID, group/device id, and lamp-count fields.
- Resolve model capability profile (panel size, LED type, ambiguity flags).
- Support per-device persisted choice for ambiguous shapes (`0x81/0x82/0x83`).
- Expose resolved capability data to transfer/control handlers.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct ScanIdentity {
    pub cid: u8,
    pub pid: u8,
    pub shape: i8,
    pub reverse: bool,
    pub group_id: u8,
    pub device_id: u8,
    pub lamp_count: u16,
    pub lamp_num: u16,
}

pub enum AmbiguousShape {
    Shape81,
    Shape82,
    Shape83,
}

pub struct ModelProfile {
    pub led_type: Option<u8>,
    pub panel_size: Option<(u16, u16)>,
    pub ambiguous_shape: Option<AmbiguousShape>,
}

pub struct ScanModelHandler;

impl ScanModelHandler {
    pub fn parse_identity(scan_data: &[u8]) -> Option<ScanIdentity>;
    pub fn resolve_model(identity: &ScanIdentity) -> ModelProfile;
}
```

## Device Profile Resolver Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`  
Comment: Typed routing resolution is now complete: scan identity + optional LED
info query are merged into canonical LED type/panel/text path/joint mode,
unresolved ambiguity is surfaced as an explicit error, and resolved routing is
surfaced in session metadata and consumed by text upload path validation.

Protocol references:

- [Shape and LED type resolution](protocol.md#shape-and-led-type-resolution)
- [Joint mode mapping for ambiguous layouts](protocol.md#joint-mode-mapping-for-ambiguous-layouts)
- [Canonical model-resolution algorithm](protocol.md#canonical-model-resolution-algorithm)
- [Command routing rules](protocol.md#command-routing-rules)

Behaviour:

- Resolve profile from parsed scan identity plus optional `Get LED type`
  response.
- Emit typed routing decisions for text path (`832/1616/3232/6464/1664`).
- Emit canonical joint mode for ambiguous shapes.
- Keep unknown/ambiguous profile states explicit (no silent fallback to guessed
  panel size).
- Feed this profile into all high-level command handlers.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct DeviceRoutingProfile {
    pub led_type: Option<u8>,
    pub panel_size: Option<(u16, u16)>,
    pub text_path: Option<TextPath>,
    pub joint_mode: Option<u8>,
}

pub enum TextPath {
    Path832,
    Path1616,
    Path3232,
    Path6464,
    Path1664,
}

pub struct DeviceProfileResolver;

impl DeviceProfileResolver {
    pub fn resolve(identity: &ScanIdentity, led_info: Option<LedInfoResponse>) -> DeviceRoutingProfile;
}
```

## Notification Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [Notify responses and flow control](protocol.md#notify-responses-and-flow-control)
- [Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)

Behaviour:

- Subscribe to active notify/read characteristic for the selected profile.
- Decode family-specific statuses (text/gif/image/diy/timer/schedule/OTA).
- Decode state-query responses:
  - LED info response (`0x01/0x80`, including switch/status byte, screen type,
    password flag, and MCU version).
  - Screen-light read response (`0x0F/0x80`).
- Emit typed events for `next_package`, `finish`, and family-specific errors.
- Preserve unknown payloads for diagnostics.

Rust API:

```rust
pub enum TransferFamily {
    Text,
    Gif,
    Image,
    Diy,
    Timer,
    Ota,
}

pub enum NotifyEvent {
    NextPackage(TransferFamily),
    Finished(TransferFamily),
    Error(TransferFamily, u8),
    ScheduleSetup(u8),
    ScheduleMasterSwitch(u8),
    LedInfo(LedInfoResponse),
    ScreenLightTimeout(u8),
    Unknown(Vec<u8>),
}

pub struct NotificationHandler;

impl NotificationHandler {
    pub fn decode(payload: &[u8]) -> Result<NotifyEvent, NotificationDecodeError>;
}
```

## Frame Codec Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [Frame families](protocol.md#frame-families)
- [Serialisation rules](protocol.md#serialisation-rules)

Behaviour:

- Encode/decode short control frames.
- Encode/decode 16-byte media headers.
- Encode/decode DIY 9-byte chunk prefixes.
- Encode/decode OTA 13-byte chunk headers.
- Keep field order explicit and per-family; do not assume one universal
  endianness helper behaviour.

Rust API:

```rust
pub struct FrameCodec;

impl FrameCodec {
    pub fn encode_short(command_id: u8, command_ns: u8, payload: &[u8]) -> Result<Vec<u8>, FrameCodecError>;
    pub fn decode_short(frame: &[u8]) -> Result<ShortFrame<'_>, FrameCodecError>;
    pub fn encode_text_header(fields: TextHeaderFields) -> [u8; 16];
    pub fn encode_gif_header(fields: GifHeaderFields) -> [u8; 16];
    pub fn encode_diy_prefix(fields: DiyPrefixFields) -> [u8; 9];
    pub fn encode_ota_chunk_header(fields: OtaChunkHeaderFields) -> [u8; 13];
}
```

## Power Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Switchplate)

Behaviour:

- Implement screen on/off command pair where supported.
- Ensure idempotent caller-facing behaviour.
- CLI wired: `idm control power <off|on>`.

## Brightness Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Brightness)

Behaviour:

- Send brightness command with validated range input.
- Reject out-of-range values before encoding.
- CLI wired: `idm control brightness <0..100>`.

## Time Sync Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Sync time)

Behaviour:

- Convert timestamp to protocol fields (`yy mm dd dow HH MM SS`).
- Use Monday=1..Sunday=7 for day-of-week encoding.
- Send one atomic synchronisation frame.
- CLI wired: `idm control sync-time [--unix <timestamp>]`.

## Fullscreen Colour Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Full-screen colour)

Behaviour:

- Fill display with one RGB colour via fullscreen command.
- Use typed colour parameters.
- CLI wired: `idm control colour <r> <g> <b>`.

## Text Upload Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0`

Protocol references:

- [Text upload](protocol.md#text-upload)
- [Command routing rules](protocol.md#command-routing-rules) (text-path rules)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns)
  (Text)

Behaviour:

- Build text payload from metadata + glyph stream according to selected
  resolution/profile.
- Compute CRC32 over logical text payload.
- Chunk at protocol size and then transport size.
- Use notification-driven pacing with fallback timeout policy.
- Consume typed notification events from the session API rather than decoding
  raw notify payload bytes in handler code.
- CLI wired: `idm control text <text>`.

## GIF Upload Handler

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P0` Comment: Implemented with 4K logical chunking, CRC32 framing,
notify ACK pacing, cache-hit short-circuit behaviour, and CLI wiring via
`idm image <image_file>`. Input is now type-validated as GIF bytes with parsed
logical dimensions before transfer begins.

Protocol references:

- [GIF upload](protocol.md#gif-upload)
- [Shared media tail byte pattern](protocol.md#shared-media-tail-byte-pattern-gif-image-text)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns) (GIF)

Behaviour:

- Chunk raw GIF bytes at `4096` protocol chunk size.
- Emit 16-byte GIF headers with proper flags/CRC/tail profile.
- Accept only syntactically valid GIF payloads via typed `GifAnimation`.
- When device panel dimensions are known, reject GIFs whose logical screen
  dimensions differ.
- Top-level `image` command detects GIF input and routes to this handler.
- Use notification-driven flow control.
- Drain stale notify events before upload to reduce cross-command ACK bleed.
- Consume typed notification events from the session API rather than decoding
  raw notify payload bytes in handler code.
- CLI wired via top-level `idm image <image_file>`.

## Image Upload Handler (Non-DIY)

Status: `DONE`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Implemented with 4K logical chunking, CRC32 framing, notify ACK pacing,
and type-safe RGB888 payload validation bound to active panel dimensions.

Protocol references:

- [Image upload (non-DIY)](protocol.md#image-upload-non-diy)
- [Display-intent payload semantics](protocol.md#display-intent-payload-semantics)
- [Shared media tail byte pattern](protocol.md#shared-media-tail-byte-pattern-gif-image-text)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns)
  (Image)

Behaviour:

- Support image family (`0x02`) 16-byte header upload flow.
- Accept RGB888 framebuffer payloads only (`width * height * 3`) via typed
  `Rgb888Frame` construction.
- Reject payloads whose frame dimensions do not match active panel geometry.
- Keep file/container decoding and resize/rotation outside this handler.
- Align tail/profile bytes to target firmware behaviour.
- Reuse chunker and flow-control primitives from GIF handler.
- Consume typed notification events from the session API rather than decoding
  raw notify payload bytes in handler code.
- CLI wired via top-level `idm image <image_file>`.

## DIY Upload Handler (Raw RGB)

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [DIY raw RGB upload](protocol.md#diy-raw-rgb-upload)
- [Display-intent payload semantics](protocol.md#display-intent-payload-semantics)
- [DIY raw-image frame](protocol.md#diy-raw-image-frame-9-byte-header)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns) (DIY)

Behaviour:

- Switch to DIY mode before transfer.
- Upload RGB888 framebuffer payload with 9-byte DIY per-chunk prefix.
- Reject payloads whose byte length does not match active panel geometry.
- Support mode reset/exit behaviour after completion.

## Clock Style Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Clock mode/style)

Behaviour:

- Encode clock style flags (`style`, `show_date`, `is_24h`) and colour.
- Keep style as typed enum.

## Countdown Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Countdown)

Behaviour:

- Support start/pause/reset style countdown commands.
- Validate minute/second ranges.

## Chronograph Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Chronograph)

Behaviour:

- Map semantic operations to protocol modes (`reset/start/pause/continue`).

## Scoreboard Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Scoreboard)

Behaviour:

- Encode two score words with explicit byte ordering policy.
- Clamp or reject out-of-range values by documented policy.

## Device Info Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Expanded scope on `2026-02-16`. LED-info response parsing is used both
from explicit query semantics and from the time-sync callback path; current
implementation assumptions around a single query flow are incomplete.

Protocol reference:
[Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)

Behaviour:

- Support LED-info read via protocol response shape
  `len >= 9, b[2]=0x01, b[3]=0x80` and parse:
  - MCU version major/minor
  - switch/status byte
  - screen type
  - password flag
- Optionally issue dedicated query frame (`04 00 01 80`) where supported.
- Surface capabilities needed by higher-level handlers.

## Experimental: `getLedType` Probe

Status: `EXPERIMENTAL`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Added on `2026-02-16`. A dedicated query frame `04 00 01 80` is defined
but call-sites are not explicit in normal flows. We should probe this safely and
capture per-device behaviour.

Protocol reference:
[Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)

Behaviour:

- Send raw query frame `04 00 01 80` after connection/notify setup.
- Wait for response matching `len >= 9`, `b[2] == 0x01`, `b[3] == 0x80`.
- Parse and log:
  - MCU version major/minor (`b[4]`, `b[5]`)
  - switch/status byte (`b[6]`)
  - screen type (`b[7]`)
  - password flag (`b[8]`)
- Apply timeout and no-response handling; do not block normal command flows.
- Record outcome by resolved profile/firmware so we can decide if this should be
  promoted into the core `Device Info Handler`.

## Screen Light Timeout Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: Expanded scope on `2026-02-16`. Query/readback (`05 00 0F 80 FF` ->
`05 00 0F 80 <value>`) is confirmed; implementation must expose typed readback,
not set-only writes.

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Screen-light timeout set/read)

Behaviour:

- Implement set/read screen-light timeout commands.
- Parse readback response and expose typed duration.

## Readback Capability Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`  
Comment: New on `2026-02-16`. Only limited readback capability exists (LED info,
screen-light timeout, OTA descriptor string). No reverse
framebuffer/current-image download command path was found.

Protocol references:

- [Device-info query response](protocol.md#device-info-query-response)
- [Compatibility notes](protocol.md#compatibility-notes)

Behaviour:

- Provide one place that defines supported read operations and unsupported ones.
- Support:
  - LED info/state read.
  - Screen-light timeout read.
  - Optional descriptor-string read for firmware/OTA gating.
- Explicitly return `unsupported` for:
  - Download currently displayed image/framebuffer.
  - Pulling current material payload bytes from device.

## Password Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Set/Verify password)

Behaviour:

- Implement set password and verify password command families.
- Keep password representation typed and validated.

## Joint/Mic/Rhythm Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol references:

- [Joint mode mapping for ambiguous layouts](protocol.md#joint-mode-mapping-for-ambiguous-layouts)
- [Music/rhythm control](protocol.md#musicrhythm-control)

Behaviour:

- Implement joint mode, mic type, and rhythm control commands.
- Keep unknown sub-modes explicit as opaque values where semantics are unclear.

## Timer Transfer Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [Timer transfer protocols](protocol.md#timer-transfer-protocols)
- [Timer transfer frame](protocol.md#timer-transfer-frame-24-byte-header)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns)
  (Timer)

Behaviour:

- Encode timer transfer headers (24-byte family).
- Support image/text timer payload modes.
- Decode timer-specific ACK/save/fail notify statuses.

## Schedule Transfer Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [Schedule transfer protocols](protocol.md#schedule-transfer-protocols)
- [Schedule transfer frame](protocol.md#schedule-transfer-frame-23-byte-header)
- [Schedule control responses](protocol.md#schedule-control-responses)

Behaviour:

- Encode schedule transfer headers (23-byte family).
- Support gif/image/text schedule theme transfers.
- Sequence setup/master-switch and queued resource sends.
- Decode schedule setup/master-switch responses.

## OTA Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P1`

Protocol references:

- [OTA transfer protocol](protocol.md#ota-transfer-protocol)
- [OTA data frame](protocol.md#ota-data-frame)
- [OTA setup command](protocol.md#ota-setup-command)
- [Transfer family ACK patterns](protocol.md#transfer-family-ack-patterns) (OTA)

Behaviour:

- Implement OTA step-1 command and validation.
- Encode OTA chunk headers and send chunked binary.
- Track OTA notify statuses and fail conditions.

## Display Orientation Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol reference: [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control)
(Rotate 180)

Behaviour:

- Manage rotate control as typed operation.
- Keep each control explicit; avoid ambiguous boolean APIs.

## Graffiti Handler

Status: `TODO`  
Priority: `P2`

Protocol references:

- [DIY raw RGB upload](protocol.md#diy-raw-rgb-upload)
- [Device/common control](protocol.md#devicecommon-control) (Enter/exit DIY
  mode)

Behaviour:

- Support per-pixel DIY drawing command path.
- Validate coordinates against active panel dimensions.

## Cross-cutting requirements

- All transfer handlers SHOULD share a common chunking/pacing engine.
- Timeout policy MUST be configurable per transfer family.
- Handler APIs SHOULD return structured receipts with status family and final
  response payload.
- Unknown response payloads MUST be preserved for diagnostics.
